Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. What an honor it is for me as a basketball player to have the all-time great presenting me here tonight. It was such a valuable It was so valuable to me as a player to see someone who had the same desire, determination, passion, and love for the game. Who knew that number 23 would be here 23 years later presenting me into the NBA, excuse me, to the Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame. MJ, you have touched so many people lives, but none like like mine. Thank you for being the best teammate. I will always cherish that experience and I will cherish our relationship forever. Thank you. I want to start out by congratulating the class of 2010. I have some great guys in that class that I really admire. Karl Malone, Dennis Johnson, who his wife is representing him tonight, as well as Gus Johnson. But I want to say as I stand here tonight, I am deeply humbled to be in the presence of all these amazing people who have made such a tremendous impact on the mark of sports. Because I didn't get where I am standing here today without the help of many people. I hope those that I leave out will forgive me as I thank a few special individuals. I want to thank my mom and my dad for everything that they've done for me. Growing up with 11 siblings was a challenge, but we made it work. It was also an incredible opportunity for me to be lifted by so many times, by my siblings, by so many people for so long. I love and I appreciate you guys. to my brother Billy who is here tonight. It's been a long time since the days that I walked on at the University of Central Arkansas and I want to thank you for that trip. To the person who takes my breath away, my beautiful wife Lson. La, you are incredible. You're everything to me and you are a major part of who I am and what I have accomplished. To my kids here tonight, you light up my life and you truly make every day fun and exciting. All of you are special in your own way and are destined to be great at whatever you choose to do in life. and I will be there to love you and encourage you along the way. Thank you guys. My best friend here tonight, Ronnie Martin, my childhood friend. Ronnie, it's been a long time and an amazing journey. I appreciate you and I love you like a brother. to my high school coach, Coach Donna Wayne, who's here tonight. Would you please stand? I see you, coach. I will say that I didn't I didn't mean for you to sit that far back. And he's also here with his beautiful wife, Brenda, tonight. But the influence of a high school coach can be so powerful. Coach Wayne, I wouldn't be standing here today without your encouragement and your support. Thank you. To my coaches at the University of Central Arkansas, Coach Don Dy and Coach Arch Jones. Thank you for believing in me when no one else did and giving me the opportunity to play the game I love. to Jerry Ryanorf in the entire Chicago Bulls organization as well as many as my great teammates I played with and cities I played in throughout my career. It was really an amazing dynasty in Chicago and I'm thankful to be a part of it. Thank you. I want to thank my coaches with a special thanks to Phil Jackson. When I say I play with the greatest, let's not forget I also play for the greatest coach of all time. Thank you, Phil. to my teammates whom lots are here tonight. If you please would just stand so I can recognize you. I want to thank you guys because uh I wouldn't be standing here today. Steve Jud Charles Dennis, Randy Brown, Bill Wington, Pete Myers. Thank all you guys. I really appreciate playing with you guys and I want you to know that you will always be in my heart. I want to thank the NBA and USA basketball. Words can't describe my feeling. I was a small town kid from Hamburg, Arkansas, and you provided me the platform to live out my passion, the game of basketball on the world's grandest stage. Thank you to my family. Nike, Nike Basketball. You have engineered the best for the best. I'm proud to be considered a member of the Nike family. To my dear friend Lynn Merritt, who's head of global basketball at Nike, thank you buddy. You've stood with me and you mentored me along the way. To my friend Ray Clark here tonight from the marketing arm, you're the best. I thank you for always being there for me, Ray. I played this game that I love so much and everything I had, I laid it out there. I've also tried to live my life in the way that will make the people I love and care about proud of me. I have so much to be thankful for. I have been able to live my dream of playing basketball surrounded by people I love and being cheered on by the best fans in the world. It was a great ride. for all of this. I say thank God and thank you.